Once you join the military you're going to really find that your service
is broken up into two chunks. It's when you're back at home and when
you're out on deployment. When you're back at home,then you're going
to find that your job is basically 9 to 5. You're going to wake
up just like everybody else in the world, do your job, have lunch,
and then go home at 5 o'clock and then you're just free to do whatever
you want. So the way you normally meet people, meeting them at the
malls, at the library, at clubs, at bars. Those are the same ways
that you're gonna find. When you're on deployment however, things are
a lot different. When you're just on that boat, it feels very claustrophobic
sometimes. Especially, at least for me, I realized that most
of the people that I was around are many guys. I think the ratio
is like seventy percent male to 30 percent on the aircraft carrier.
So you're going to be in a space, you're talking to them all at the
same time, all the same people. However on those deployments, you do
get to have port calls, which means that you go into another country
like Malaysia, Hong Kong, Singapore, or Thailand and for four days
or five days then that's your day to roam free. Most of the time,
you get liberty. That means that you get to have those days off. During
that time, your chance to meet people are increased substantially.
So for instance, when I was in Australia, they knew that we were
coming in. They knew that the Navy was going to be there. So many people
would come in from other places just to spend time in those hotels
and experience our lives and our culture. When you go to a bar,
people know that you're in the military, because you look different.
You have a clean shaven face and maybe there aren't that many black
people there or there aren't that many Hispanics there. So you stand
out. Then they're going to want to come up to you. That's something
that doesn't happen in the United States. No one, you know--people
don't just show up and buy you a beer. So it can be easier at times
when you have those moments of freedom, when you're on deployment.
When you're back home, it's the same as anything else.